We talked a little bit about the range
of experience that people have with
disability, that it's so varied.
This really comes through in how
people interact with computers and
mobile devices.
We can think about how some people
use the mouse, some people don't.
Some people use things
called switch devices,
which are small keyboard devices
that have a limited set of keys.
So if you have limited motion but
you can hit a couple of keys,
you have an easier interface
to get through the computer.
Some people use headwands,
if you're quadriplegic or paraplegic and
you have limited use of your limbs, there
are other ways of navigating the web.
And so if we really focused on the basics,
amazingly we can sort of support some of
this technologies that people use and
so, even more of a reason to learn
the basics of web accessibility.
So lets start busting some
myths about accessibility,
some of the things that I've seen
crop up that are misconceptions.
So first, screen readers use JavaScript.
Don't need to make a Node.js site for
a screen reader to use it,
they look at the page as rendered.
And that as rendered is, that's gonna
come up a lot, I mentioned shadow DOM and
web components, that's kind of the term
I learned in how accessibility would
apply to that, was that it's important
that it's how it gets rendered.
It's like the whole thing and
the rendered source of the page.
So screen readers rely on that.
That said, screen readers are not
the only aspect of accessibility.
We'll dive into it quite a bit, but we're
gonna hopefully give you lots of tips and
techniques for more than just
screen reader accessibility.
People also navigate by voice.
And this is one area that semantic HTML
in particular will really help out.
One question that I've gotten is, can we
track screen readers to know kind of how
people are using our sites,
how many people are using screen readers?
And the answer is no.
And it's not for a technical reason,
it's actually for a privacy reason mostly.
I have an article in
the slides from Marco Ziha,
he worked at Mozilla for a long time.
He's blind, and
he wrote very passionately about why
we shouldn't track screen readers on
the web, and I'll read this quote.
He said, letting a website know you're
using a screen reader means running
around the web, waving a red flag that
shouts, here, I'm visually impaired or
blind at anyone who is willing to look.
And so we don't want to track people
who don't want to be tracked.
He said that it was the one place
being the web that blind people
could navigate around relatively
undetected without comments or
without needing help if something
was actually accessible.
I thought that's really powerful to be
able to help people live more independent
lives just by making
stuff more accessible.
That's an impact that we don't
necessarily think about all the time.
So yeah, lots of ways that people use
the web, and we just wanna build it
accessibly and just let it be,
we're not gonna try and track people.
There are some areas of analytics,
if you're really curious about that,
we can talk about it more.
But for screen readers in particular,
we do not wanna track people.
So, we have some overlapping
areas of accessibility that kind
of feed into that persuasion area,
if you need to convince
people of how can we line this
up with our other objectives,
there are some overlaps starting with
search-engine optimization, SEO.
So accessibility doesn't
directly affect how websites
are ranked in things like Google or
Bing, but headings are.
There was a practice,
kind of an unfortunate practice in SEO of
just jamming as many key words
as you could into a page.
And fortunately, that's not the way
people do things anymore but
those heading tags
are still very important.
They tell Googlebot or
blind people how a page is structured.
And so that semantic markup that
we put into our pages helps
both accessibility and
search engine optimization.
Also using links, like links in and out
of your site kind of create this network.
Yeah, it just adds some legitimacy to
your site, links are good for navigating.
They work great in screen readers and
with the keyboard.
And so that's another overlap.
Performance, which we will talk
about later in our design section.
But if a site loads fast,
you can interact with it quicker.
It's kind of good for everyone.
It's like, yeah, accessibility
really is a benefit to everyone.
And there's a talk that I've linked
in these slides from Eric Bailey at
the PerfMatters Conference.
It was one of my favorite things
about accessibility and performance,
like if you're a performance person or
interested in it,
I would highly recommend checking
out that talk from Eric Bailey.
And again, we'll talk a lot
more about performance later.
Security, I touched on this briefly, but
if your user interface is inaccessible it
can become a privacy or security issue.
If you think of an ATM or
like a point of sale system or something,
if a person can't interact
with it without getting help,
they can't do it independently.
So we want to try and make our interfaces,
either physical interfaces
are kind of an analog to the digital
ones that we're creating.
But we don't want to force someone to make
a choice between access and security.
Just really interesting to me, those
kind of overlaps are super fascinating.
Customer and business growth.
I mean, the more accessible your site is,
the more people can use it, or
the flip side of it,
the less accessible your site is,
the fewer people can use it,
the fewer customers you might have.
For accessible platforms,
if they're accessible from the start,
then you could have more early
adopters that have disabilities.
It's unfortunately left out, accessibility
is left out often early in the process
when that's precisely when we
need to think about it the most.
And so, I think it can help your
growth of your business to be
considering accessibility
from the beginning.
You also have the benefit of having
less debt, we talked about access debt,
that accrues over time and it can be
really hard to root out when it's in
the DNA of your business or
the DNA of your product.
And so the earlier we tackle this,
the better.